New Blog Post: Reflections from BOSC 2026: A Event Fellowship Recipient's Story by Neha (#180)
OBF/OBF.github.io: content/posts/2026-08-04-Neha-Bioinformatics-open-source-conference.md

---
author: Neha
date: 2026-08-04
category:
 - community
 - event-fellowship
 - travel-fellowship
cover:
  image: /img/2026/2026-08-06-Neha.png
  alt: "poster presentation at BOSC"

tag:
 - community
 - event-fellowship
 - travel-fellowship

> title: "My Experience at BOSC 2026"

Reviewer: Can you come up with a less generic title? Even just 'Neha's Experience at BOSC 2026' is better.

Author: changed

url: 2026-08-04-Neha-Bioinformatics-open-source-conference.md
---

> Taking part in the **BOSC 2026 (Bioinformatics Open Source Conference)**, was a valuable learning experience for me. I appreciate the **Open Bioinformatics Foundation (OBF)** for supporting me with their fellowship, which made it possible for me to attend this event. OBF represents a non-profit group that promotes open source software and open science. Every year, it runs the BOSC flagship meeting to promote community-driven open science as a part of larger **ISMB(Intelligent System Molecular Biology)** Conference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Taking part in the **BOSC 2026 (Bioinformatics Open Source Conference)**, was a valuable learning experience for me. I appreciate the **Open Bioinformatics Foundation (OBF)** for supporting me with their fellowship, which made it possible for me to attend this event. OBF represents a non-profit group that promotes open source software and open science. Every year, it runs the BOSC flagship meeting to promote community-driven open science as a part of larger **ISMB (Intelligent System Molecular Biology)** Conference.
```

We'd want to insert the standard header here, see eg https://www.open-bio.org/2026/06/17/2026-06-17-francesco-micocci-bits2026/ - which would include links to the conference etc. Otherwise I'd have said use some links here.

Author: modified

Reviewer: There's a typo 'canddate'. Unlike the USA, in the UK we just say PhD student.

Author: done

The conference also introduced me to several computational techniques, like mixOmics, MOFA, and different fusion strategies such as early, intermediate, and late fusion. These methods showed me that integration can happen at different stages of analysis, from combining features to using ensemble techniques for model-level aggregation.

An additional significant learning experience was attending the BOSC session on **Knowledge Graphs and KG-Registry on 14 July**. The session illustrated how knowledge graphs integrate disparate biological resources by representing relationships among genes, proteins, diseases, pathways, drugs, and other biomedical entities. I was particularly interested in how knowledge graphs address challenges related to broken biological information by helping researchers to reveal concealed connections and formulate new hypotheses.

> The discussion on **KG-Registry** also offered important insights into the initiatives designed to improve the discoverability, accessibility, and reuse of the knowledge graph resources within the bioinformatics community. The registry  lets researchers identify available knowledge graphs, comprehend their scope and applications, and promote interoperability among different resources. This discussion stressed the key role of open-source infrastructure and community-led initiatives in furthering the FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Reusable) principles for biological knowledge.

Reviewer: Maybe link to https://kghub.org/kg-registry/docs/intro/ here?

Author: added

Besides this, I also learned about tools like **MEDFORD and OBO Foundry** for metadata descriptions.

Spatial transcriptomics, especially using Visium data, is another fascinating area. This technology lets researchers map gene expression directly onto tissue structures. It will have a big impact on understanding cell niches, where the local environment influences how cells behave and function.

> I feel so grateful to have presented my poster, "Realistic Synthetic Data Generation for Biomedical Research and Computational Modeling in Endometrial Cancer," on such a large platform. I learned about **poster.science**, a platform that could help me improve my poster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I feel so grateful to have presented my poster, "Realistic Synthetic Data Generation for Biomedical Research and Computational Modeling in Endometrial Cancer," on such a large platform. I learned about [poster.science](https://posters.science/), a platform that could help me improve my poster.
```

Reviewer: Are you able to share your poster online to get a DOI, and then you could link to it here to get more impact? eg FigShare, Zenodo, F1000, ...

Author: awaiting publication (Bioinformatics Advances)

---
author: Neha

> date: 2026-08-04

Reviewer 2: let's change to 2026-08-08 so the post will show up at the top of the blog page https://www.open-bio.org/blog/

Author: done

category:
 - community
 - event-fellowship
 - travel-fellowship
cover:
  image: /img/2026/2026-08-06-Neha.png
  alt: "poster presentation at BOSC"

tag:
 - community
 - event-fellowship

>  - travel-fellowship

Reviewer 2: add bosc tag

Author: done

> title: "Reflections from BOSC 2026: A Travel Fellowship Recipient's Story"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: "Reflections from BOSC 2026: An Event Fellowship Recipient's Story"
```

Author: done

url: 2026-08-04-Neha-Bioinformatics-open-source-conference.md
---

> **_The_** [**_Open Bioinformatics Foundation (OBF) Event Fellowship program_**](/travel-awards) **_aims to promote diverse participation at events promoting open-source bioinformatics software development and open science practices in the biological research community.  Neha,_** _**a PHD student at University of Newcastle, Australia**_, **_was awarded an OBF Event Fellowship to attend_** _**the**_ **_[Bioinformatics Open Source Conference (BOSC) 2026](https://www.open-bio.org/events/bosc-2026/)_**.

Reviewer 2: If you put the photo at the end of this paragraph (with no newline separating it), it will appear on https://www.open-bio.org/blog/. Otherwise, the post will show up there with no image.

> Taking part in [BOSC 2026 (Bioinformatics Open Source Conference)](https://www.open-bio.org/events/bosc/) was a valuable learning experience. I am grateful to the [Open Bioinformatics Foundation (OBF)](https://www.open-bio.org/) for supporting me through their fellowship, which made it possible for me to attend. It was a unique space where open-source software, biology, and the research community converged in a truly collaborative way. Every year, OBF runs the BOSC flagship meeting to promote community-driven open science as a part of larger ISMB(Intelligent System Molecular Biology) Conference.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Taking part in [BOSC 2026 (Bioinformatics Open Source Conference)](https://www.open-bio.org/events/bosc/) was a valuable learning experience. I am grateful to the [Open Bioinformatics Foundation (OBF)](https://www.open-bio.org/) for supporting me through their fellowship, which made it possible for me to attend. It was a unique space where open-source software, biology, and the research community converged in a truly collaborative way. Every year, OBF runs the BOSC flagship meeting to promote community-driven open science as a part of the larger ISMB (Intelligent System Molecular Biology) Conference.
```

Besides this, I also learned about tools like **MEDFORD and OBO Foundry** for metadata descriptions.

Spatial transcriptomics, especially using Visium data, is another fascinating area. This technology lets researchers map gene expression directly onto tissue structures. It will have a big impact on understanding cell niches, where the local environment influences how cells behave and function.

I feel so grateful to have presented my poster, "Realistic Synthetic Data Generation for Biomedical Research and Computational Modeling in Endometrial Cancer," on such a large platform. I learned about [poster.science](https://posters.science/), a platform that could help me improve my poster.

> ![Poster Presentation](/img/2026/2026-08-06-Neha.png)

Reviewer 2: put at end of 1st paragraph

Author: done

---
author: Neha

> date: 22026-08-08 

Reviewer 2: this may be my typo - should be 2026

Author: changed
